#sidebar sidebar
<pre>
These modules can be recognized as they're using the ".ptp" extension
(regular modules use ".ptk"), they can be reloaded inside the tracker so the
musician can actually hear how damaged by the lossy compression they've been.

 While these files may have a bigger size than their .ptk counterparts,
they're internally organized to maximize packing ratio so using a any generic 
data compressor on them will produce a much smaller file than what could be
achieved by packing a .ptk file.

 There are two commands related to compressed modules in the tracker:

 "Save .ptp":
Create a module with extension ".ptp" in the current directory.

 "Calc .ptp":
Calculate (roughly) the size that the module would take once used in an intro.

 Note that compressed modules generated on big endian platforms and little endian
ones aren't compatible between them.
----
 
Samples inside .ptp modules can be packed, the user have the ability to select
the packing algorithm which'll be used (GSM, MP3, TRUESPEECH or no compression
at all) on a per sample basis, the 3 available compression schemes are lossy.

 GSM:
Suitable for drums/snares.

 MP3:
Suitable for longer samples like cymbals (it's tuned to pack at 64kbits).

 True Speech:
Suitable for human voices
(you can use some track effects to cover the radio like quality).

 None:
Suitable for very short (chiptune like) samples
(if you want to keep perfect quality).

 Note that this is the only way to save packed samples if the tracker
has been compiled without codecs supports.

 The .ptp are the only modules format recognized by the replay routine.

 Note:
The MP3 compression might not work on a bare bone Windows 2000
(it works on any others).

 Note2:
When a packing is selected for a sample (other than none)
samples are reconstructed by interpolation.
----

 Alongside with the .ptp are the optional .psm files which contain synchro
informations related to the effect "07" used within the patterns;
The .psm file format is as follow:

 Header:

 1.w: number of synchros data entries

 Synchro data:

 1.b: position
1.b: row
1.b: fx data (as specified within the tracker)

 Note:
The fx data part is removed from the .ptp files and moved to the .psm files
and only one fx per position/row is saved.
</pre>